## This is essentially a beginner's guide

## Before staring we would like to mention a few important points:

* Shift to `Linux`. Give up your love for windows. If you are from IIT
	Kanpur, programming club holds <em>Linux Install fest</em> at regular intervals in an year (<b> Once in summers </b> and <b> once at the start of even semester.</b>).
	Linux has several distros, <em>ArchLinux, Ubuntu, Kali, Fedora,
	Gentoo</em> and <em>Nix</em> are just to name a few. You might want
	to check out the information regarding various distributions but the
	general recommendation is to start with <b>Ubuntu</b>.
	(Other colleges must have such fests too, maybe contact
	the programming/cyber club or any related cell of your college).
* Learn `Git`. <em>Almost</em> all of us have at come stage named our
	codes/files as `final`, `finalfinal`, `lastfinal` or
	`finalwithminorchanges`. It is time to say goodbye to this
	practice (for a greater good). Git is a <b>version control
	system</b> which allows you to keep track of your work and allows
	you to collaborate with other people on a project without having to
	send zip files each time you make a change.
	You know what we mean.
* Programming Languages
	* The best way to learn a programming language is by writing programs in the same.
	* Here are a few programming languages, out of which you must know
		<b>at least</b> one.
		* C++
		* Java
		* Python
	* Sources for the above mentioned languages are as follows:
		* C++: C++ in a nutshell
		* Java: Headfirst Java, Oracle Docs
		* Python: Python in a nutshell
* Focus on IDE (Integrated Development Environment): Realise that an IDE
	might be really helpful in very large projects. Some examples of
	IDES are <em>Microsoft Visual Studio, NetBeans, PyCharm, Eclipse,
	Code::Blocks, RubyMine</em> etc.
* Editors: When working with a standalone file or with a small file, a
	good editor might come in handy more than an IDE. Some examples are
	<em>Vim, Emacs, Atom, Sublime</em> etc.
* <b>IDE vs Editor:</b> Apart from being comfortable with both IDEs and
	editors, it is also important to know when to use an IDE and when to
	use an editor. Follow this link to convince yourself.
* <b>Art of Googling:</b> Art of Googling makes you good coder, in an easy way. Please realize that you are programmer/coder/developer and not a poet. It is not advisable to search for “What are the differences between X and Y” instead of searching “X vs Y”.
* <b>Articles by IITK students</b>
	* Adarsh J
	* Kriti
	* Saksham Sharma
	* Pallav Agarwal
	* Shikher Verma
	* Milind Luthra
	* Yash Srivastav

* Open Source Contribution
* Know IITK seniors

## Now starting with the actual Divisions:

* Development (Broadly web and android/iOS app)
* Competitive Programming
* Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence
* DevOps
* Cyber Security
* Systems

## Web Development

Client, server, DNS, frontend, backend, you’ve heard of all those terms -- but how exactly does the web work? This article explains basic concepts.

Have you wondered “What happens when you type google.com into your browser's address box and press enter?”. You may not understand most part of this, but keep visiting this link over months or semesters and everytime, you will be able to understand more of it.

